---
title: Roaring moon suspect test
categories:
- General
- External sources
feature_image: "https://i.postimg.cc/j2QCZ9Pt/Untitled.png"
---

Roaring Moon's initial quickban right after the release of Scarlet and Violet has always been shrouded in controversy due to faulty implementation of Booster Energy, where one of the primary reasons for its ban was coded incorrectly to boost all stats by 1.5x instead of 1.3x. The early National Dex OU metagame was also filled with a plethora of different offensive threats, which made defensively checking Roaring Moon nigh impossible and also bolstered the viability of hyper offensive teams that it thrived on. With most of the these Pokémon long banned, the coding error fixed, and the metagame settling down after the latest DLC, there was plenty of speculation on whether Roaring Moon could potentially see the light of day in National Dex OU again. Boasting a monstrous base 139 Attack stat alongside base 119 Speed, Roaring Moon was built to be an offensive powerhouse. Roaring Moon‘s impressive natural bulk and solid defensive typing are also a game changer, letting it set up freely on numerous Pokémon such as Galarian Slowking, Heatran, Alomomola, and Tapu Lele locked into Psychic. Dragon Dance in conjunction with Booster Energy and a colorful movepool also doesn't help its case, allowing it to pick and choose its checks, with various ways of outright winning on Team Preview. However, Roaring Moon is not without faults, as its relatively mediocre STAB combination forces it into coverage options that generally require it to Terastallize to net KOs, meaning it requires a lot of investment to attempt a sweep. Furthermore, while its special bulk is great, its physical bulk leaves a lot to be desired, oftentimes resulting in it being revenge killed easily. These factors, alongside its overwhelming popularity in tiering surveys for a long while, have led to it being suspected down from Ubers

<!-- more -->

Roaring Moon has not received a warm welcome to the tier, with Dragon Dance sets being immediately deemed far too much to handle. Taunt sets are near impossible to check defensively, and Tera lets it immediately flip the matchup on the few remaining checks to a boosted Roaring Moon. Relying too much on the few specific checks to the Taunt variant makes teams significantly more susceptible to Earthquake variants, which often open a large enough hole in teams for Roaring Moon's other teammates to easily sweep at the worst. The possibility of Jaw Lock sets also throws a wrench into things, meaning one wrong move could lead to Roaring Moon getting to +6 Attack and Speed and easily sweeping the rest of the team. Roaring Moon's insane special bulk also allows it to even beat its supposed “checks” by virtue of just tanking the move, such as Tapu Koko's Thunderbolt only having a 12.5% chance to OHKO Tera Flying Roaring Moon, and this is assuming Tapu Koko doesn't just Dazzling Gleam expecting Roaring Moon to not Tera. However, Choice Band sets also become far too straining to deal with; while their checks overlap with other offensive Dark-types, Roaring Moon has tools to break past these checks, and its defensive utility compared to Weavile and Darkrai is like night and day, letting it actually switch into weaker special attackers like bulky Heatran and Iron Crown.

_Originally from [smogon](https://www.smogon.com/articles/natdex-roaring-moon-suspect)_
